#summary Checking out code with TortoiseSVN or Subclipse through a proxy using a Google account.
#labels Subversion,TortoiseSVN,Subclipse

= Introduction =

Since it is sometime difficult to figure out how to checkout code and commit changes back to a Google Project, here is a little recipe on how to get connected!


== Common configuration ==

1) Create a Google account if you don't already have one by clicking here: https://www.google.com/accounts/NewAccount

2) Ask an administrator (Xavier!) to add you to the project.


== Option 1: Subclipse or Subversive (both SVN plugin for Eclipse) ==

3) Install Subclipse (http://subclipse.tigris.org/) or Subversive (http://www.eclipse.org/subversive/downloads.php), the Subversion plugins for Eclipse (www.eclipse.org). In case you opt for Subversive, make sure you also install the Connectors.

4) In Eclipse, select _Windows_ | _Preferences_. Then, on the left, go to _General_ | _Network Connections_. Enter your proxy configuration than click _OK_.

5) Still in Eclipse, go to _File_ | _New_ | _Project..._. Select _SVN_ | _Checkout Projects from SVN_ then click _Next_.

6) Select _Create a new repository location_ then click _Next_.

7) Enter the following url in the drop down: https://flex-cb.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/. Please note:  You *must* use _https_ and *not* just _http_. Otherwise, you won't be able to authenticate later... Click _Next_.

8) Select your directory (or the root of trunk) then click _Finish_.


== Option 2: TortoiseSVN ==

3) Install TortoiseSVN (http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/), the Subversion utility for Windows.

4) Once installed, in _Windows Explorer_, navigate where you want to download the source code.

5) Right-click in the directory and select _TortoiseSVN_ | _Settings_. Select _Network_ on the left and enter your proxy settings. Click _OK_.

6) Right-click in the directory once more and select _SVN Checkout..._.

7) Enter the following url in the drop down: https://flex-cb.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/. Please note:  You *must* use _https_ and *not* just _http_. Otherwise, you won't be able to authenticate later...

8) Make sure you select _HEAD revision_ and click _OK_..


== Back to Common Configuration ==

9) When you are prompt to enter your credentials, enter your Google account username. But you cannot use your regular Google password! Instead, sign in with your regular password at https://www.google.com/accounts/Login. 

10) Once signed in, go to the project's home page: http://code.google.com/p/flex-cb/

11) On the upper right, click on _Settings_.

12) Copy your _Your googlecode.com password_ and paste it in the credential pop-up window.

13) Enjoy the code!



Send me an email at dcaissy@bankofcanada.ca if you still experience some problems!