#summary Links to applications using the Flex-CB libraries

= Introduction =

The Flex-CB libraries are used by several organizations to power Flash-based statistical data vizualization tools published on their websites.

= [http://www.ecb.europa.eu European Central Bank] =

The European Central Bank uses the Flex-CB libraries to power various vizualization tools including:

  * [http://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/prices/hicp/html/inflation.en.html The ECB inflation dashboard], an interactive analytical tool that aims to help understand the inflation statistics compiled and published by Eurostat and the EU national statistical institutes. The ECB inflation dashboard shows both recent and longer-term inflation in the euro area, including a breakdown by category of goods and services and by country, and compares the evolution of components of inflation over time and across countries on a single screen, in the form of graphs or tables. It also offers the ability to play a short movie showing the evolution of inflation over a specific period of time.
  * [http://www.ecb.int/stats/money/yc/html/index.en.html The euro area yield curve]. A yield curve is a representation of the relationship between market remuneration rates and the remaining time to maturity of debt securities, also known as the term structure of interest rates. The ECB publishes several yield curves, shown in this visualisation tool. 
  * [http://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/exchange/eurofxref/html/index.en.html Charts for the bilateral exchange rates] and the [http://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/exchange/effective/html/index.en.html effective exchange rates].
  * Various charts to inform the general public about [http://www.ecb.int/ecb/educational/hicp/html/index.en.html inflation]. These charts are currently available in 22 languages.

= [http://www.bankofcanada.ca/ Bank of Canada] =

[http://credit.bank-banque-canada.ca/ Bank of Canada Credit Conditions Site]. This website brings together statistics and graphs that were previously available in several different places. To meet its mandate, the Bank carefully monitors changes in credit conditions, the money supply, financial system liquidity, as well as in other credit-market indicators such as the issuance of bonds and money-market instruments, among many other indicators. These reflect changes in the economy, the influence of monetary policy, and financial market conditions. These charts are currently available in English and French.

= [http://www.newyorkfed.org Federal Reserve Bank of New York] =

[http://data.newyorkfed.org/creditconditions/ Credit Conditions in the U.S.]

Charts displaying serious delinquency, roll rate, loss severity, and projected performance by market and asset class for nonprime mortgages within the U.S. It is part of [http://data.newyorkfed.org/creditconditions/ dashboard application] to show credit conditions throughout the United States.

[http://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/securitieslending.html/ Securities Lending]

The New York Fed provides a secondary and temporary source of securities to the financing market through a [http://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/securitieslending.html/ Securities Lending] program to promote smooth clearing of Treasury and Agency securities. The program offers securities for loan from the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio in accordance with program terms and conditions. Securities loans are awarded to primary dealers based on competitive bidding in an auction held each business day at noon eastern standard time.

[http://www.newyorkfed.org/banking/discountwindow.html/ Discount Window Lending]

The Discount Window functions as a safety valve in relieving pressures in reserve markets; extensions of credit can help alleviate liquidity strains in a depository institution and in the banking system as a whole. It also helps ensure the basic stability of the payment system by supplying liquidity during times of systemic stress.


[http://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/maidenlane.html/ Maiden Lane Transactions]

The formation of the Maiden Lane LLCs in 2008 occurred during a time of severe economic distress in the United States. The sharp deterioration in the U.S. housing market in 2007, led to a loss of confidence in the value of mortgage-related products and in the financial institutions with exposures to these products. The ensuing funding pressures on a range of financial institutions and strained liquidity conditions across the financial system led the Federal Reserve to take a series of unprecedented policy actions to contain the broader risks the financial crisis posed to the economy. Among these actions, the Federal Reserve Board authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (New York Fed) to form three limited liability companies under Section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act  to facilitate lending in support of specific institutions.


= [http://kostat.go.kr/eng/ Statistics Korea] =
The [http://kosis.kr/nsportal/bulletin/html/index_eng.html dashboards] from Statistics Korea present, in an interactive fashion, key economic and financial indicators from the G20 countries.

= [http://www.imf.org/ International Monetary Fund] =
The [http://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/index.php IMF Data Mapper] is an interactive application that allows to visualize key economic indicators from some of the Fund's flagship publications such as the World Economic Outlook as well as covering domains such as balance of payments statistics and government finance statistics. The application is also used to dynamically present the [http://www.principalglobalindicators.org/default.aspx Principal Global Indicators] for the Group of 20 (G-20) to facilitate the monitoring of economic and financial developments for these systemically important economies. The last version of the Data Mapper makes use of Flex-CB components. 

For more information, please contact the [mailto:PHINDERDAEL@imf.org International Monetary Fund].